This is my big interdisciplinary semesterproject to the topic of "automated valuation of commercial property" made in collaboration with data science department in the firm, where I currently work as a working student in the department of valuation of investment real-estate. 

As an expert in the valuation of investment properties with many years of experience, I have already been able to value several thousand properties throughout Germany. The valuations of the properties were carried out by means of a prepared Excel tool using the discounted cash flow method. Depending on the complexity of the property, this process can be very time consuming and take several hours in individual cases. The motivation of this project was to automate this very time-consuming process of valuation of investemt property. 

In contrast to the classic own-use properties, such as individual flats, single family houses, semi-detached houses, whose acquisition is more emotional and personal, purely economic factors are in the foreground for investment properties. The most important factors influencing the value of i nvestment properties include, for example, the current annual net cold rent of all units in the property and their difference to the market rents in the region, the condition of the property, the amount of maintenance reserves, the micro and macro location of the property and the current economic situation on the real estate market. And if the automated valuation of housing prices for usual residential houses is already pretty well studied task, the valuation on investement property is a pretty much "untouched" area.   

In this project such machine learning algorithms as Linear, Lasso, Ridge regression, Decision Tree, as well as group of ensemble methods including Random Forest, AdaBoost and LightGBM were applied for this purpose. After intensive data preprocessing process, tuning of hyperparameters and validation of models the median absolute percentage error (best suitable metric for this task) on the test set for the best model of about 8% was achieved which is a very good result, that even outperforms the average error spread in the manual evaluation of objects by different experts.

For more information please read the report. 

The final grade for this project was 1,0. 